---
title: Our new bus!
author: ben
tags: ["blog","T4"]
postType: post
postDate: "2017-02-11T15:27:00.000Z"
intro: I've wanted one of these for years and now we have one! We have been looking around for quite a while now trying to find the right van at the right price. And with VW festival season fast approaching we needed to find one, or wait it out until next winter as the prices of these things go through the roof when the festivals start and the sun comes out...
...

I've wanted one of these for years and now we have one! We have been looking around for quite a while now trying to find the right van at the right price. And with VW festival season fast approaching we needed to find one, or wait it out until next winter as the prices of these things go through the roof when the festivals start and the sun comes out. 

We set ourselves a fairly modest budget of £3000, which is not much for T4 in good nick. For that kind of money only a few good ones ever pop up, and luckily we found one. Usually any bus that is going for £2500 - £3000 is a bit of a project. We were willing to accept a project van, but only a conversion project. The bus itself had to be phyically and mechanically sound. Enter, Ellie.

Actually, thats not strictly true. We were due to see another van down in Poole before we found this one. We had found a silver T4 on Gumtree for the same price on Mondat. The guy seemed genuine enough, which is half the battle on Gumtree, and I had made arrangements with him to view on a Saturday. And here lies the problem. As I said, these things tend not to hang around for too long, and without putting down some kind of deposit its unfair to expect the seller to hold onto it for a week if he has interested parties closer to home, or who are willing to travel on a week night to Poole. We didnt fancy a south coast jaunt after work, so just decieded to risk it. As expected, I had a text to say that he had another guy coming to see it on the Friday before we were due to go and view it ourselves, although he was reluctant to sell it to him as he wanted it to go to a good home and not just become a work van for someone (you tend to find this with VW owners, they can get quite picky over who we sell to). Sadly for us, the guy offered him his original asking price, which was £250 over what he was advertising it at now, so we lost out.

No matter! I had already started looking for another one when I got the text about the other viewing, knowing full well that if it was as good as it looked in the ad it would go. Again, I found Ellie on Gumtree and got in touch with the seller immediately. As usual with Gumtree, 90% of the ads you enquire about never get back to you and you wonder how genuine they are. I sent the guy a message on the wednesday or thursday and heard nothing. So we rearranged our weekend and had some drinks and food with a good frindd on the saturday night and thought nothing of it. 

Then on Sunday morning, a bit hungover if we are honest, I got a message from the seller saying it was still available. Ellie was for sale in Christchurch, Bournemouth, so not a million miles away from the original journey we had planned. Now, I don't really like travelling long distances on a Sunday if I can help it. I like an afternoon at home or at least somewhere local before heading back to work on a Monday morning, so a trip to Christchurch was not particularly appealing, but for the right bus I would consider it. I called back straight away and got no answer, so got back to thinking this journey could be a waste of time so we decided to leave it and just carry on with our weekend. 

While wandering around B&Q (usual Sunday stuff), I got a call from the seller. I asked all the questions I needed to about rust, chassy, MOT and service history etc. and everything sounded positive. This was about 11:30am. We had the cash waiting at home so we decided to go for it, so we left B&Q and headed home to pick up the cash, put some fuel in the Bug and were about to leave when I got a text from the seller saying he had just taken another guy out in it and something didnt feel right with the gears. He didnt want to sell it in this condition, apologised for the inconvenience and said he would take it to a garage on Monday to get it sorted. I was already thinking this was a no-goer as even if he got it sorted on the Monday, we were back in a position where we couldn't get down to see it until the following weekend and would most likely miss out again. So we just decided to chill out, played some video games and just get on with Sunday (again).

Then at about 14:30 I got another message saying he had got the RAC out and it was a simple fix so the van was ready to view again. Did we really want to start out on a road trip to Bournemouth at 14:30 on a Sunday afternoon? Not really but then we just thought sod it, you only live once (or YOLO! thats what the kids say, right?) and went for it.

We got down to Christchurch in about 2 and a bit hours and found her easy enough (you've seen the colour, right? Hard to miss!) and I had said to Julie on the way that as long as it was as solid as it looked in the photos then we would take a punt on it. We had to try to stop ourselves getting carried away planning the conversion, road trips and holidays in our "new bus" on the journey down, but it was difficult as all we kept seeing coming towards us for what seemed like the entire journey were T4 and T5 busses! 

We met the guy selling her, and he was exactly the kind of seller you hoped to find. He was a really nice guy who actaully didn't really want to sell "his baby" (VWs do this to you!) but had been offered a job in Australia and needed the funds. The van had been service and MOTs'd 7 days previous and was in really good, solid condition. There were no real marks, scratches or dents above what you expect for a 17 year old van, so we took her for a spin. Well, as much as you can take a 1.9 T4 for a spin... they are not exaclty "nippy".

I initially had doubts when I drove her for the first time as the accelerator felt really unresponsive. I nearly stalled her a few times, struggled to get her into reverse etc. but put this down to it being and older vehicle, a van and that I just needed to get used to it. So we bought it! The guy we bought it from was an outdoor pursuits instructor (specializing in white-water kayaking if I remember right) so was happy knowing that "his baby" was going to be converted into a camper to help with weekends away and my various photography expeditions. 

Now for the fun part, driving home. This was the first time Julie had driven any distance in years and there were a few initial hiccups like me having to pull over about 100yds away from the sellers house becuase I had forgotten to tax and insure it (schoolboy error there). Then we took a few wrong directions out of town and also had to pull over because the indicators on the Bug decided to stop working (iginition on/off and they were fine) and then we needed to stop and get food for the journey home. I had said to Julie that we would need to try to stay in convoy on the way home and that I would try not to pull too far ahead, go though amber lights (not that I do that kind of thing... ok, sometimes.) or pull out at roundabouts and not leave enough space for her. I now realise how ridiculous all this was as I think I averaged about 45mph all the way home.

We got back to Bristol at about 9 or 10pm I thnk and put Ellie in the garage. So, the little bolt that put the seller of selling her to the first viewer actually did us a huge favour. We are really pleased with the bus and have grand plans for her, all of which will be documented here on this blog in the coming months and years. But for now, stage one is complete; we have our T4. 

